# Version 0.0.1a5

Released `December 19th, 2025`

## Added

- `Result` returned from all `AudioPlayer` methods, making it easy to implement further functionality.
- New `is_playing` property in `AudioPlayer`.
- Further global type checking to ensure proper data is being passed.
- New `VoiceClient`.`move` method to move channels easily.
- `FileAudioSource` raises `FileNotFoundError` if the provided filepath doesn't exist.

## Changed

- Refactored file locations for further readability and organization.

## Fixed

- Made `VoiceGateway` and `VoiceServer` connection methods idempotent, just in case they are re-called.
- Added guards on many methods to ensure object states are consistent and compliant.
- `FFmpeg` encoder/decoder is now localized to each `VoiceConnection`/`AudioPlayer`, allowing multiple voice connections with playback.

## Removed

- Convenience methods under `VoiceConnection` like `play`, `pause`, etc. in favor of clarity with `player` access.

# Version 0.0.1a4

Released `December 19th, 2025`

## Added

- New `AudioSource`s:
    1. `BufferAudioSource`: Allows `bytes`-like objects to be encoded directly.
    2. `URLAudioSource`: Allows the encoding of audio hosted at an endpoint on the web.
- `__slots__` to all objects for memory efficiency.
- Implemented Discord's Audio/Video End-to-End Encryption protocol (`DAVE`) opcodes and miscelleanous logic to prepare for transition - required by `March 1st, 2026`.
- Support for `aead_aes256_gcm_rtpsize` encryption - automatically searches for best encryption mode supported.

## Changed

- `AudioSource` implementations no longer require `read` or `stream` methods.
- Subsequently, `FileAudioSource` no longer requires `aiofiles` as a dependency; removed from project.
- Network objects (`VoiceServer`, `VoiceGateway`) moved to `networking` subfolder.

## Fixed

- `FileAudioSource` using incorrect, public `filepath` for internal checks rather than private attribute.
- `VoiceGateway` internal gateway latency calculation not returning due to reference bug.

## Removed

- `VoiceConnection` `add_queue_file`, `remove_queue_file`, and `play_file` removed in favor of generic `add_queue`, `remove_queue`, and `play`.

# Version 0.0.1a3

Released `December 17th, 2025`

## Added

- `AudioPlayer`.`shuffle()` method to shuffle the queue, as well as a corresponding `VoiceConnection`.`shuffle()` for convenience.

## Changes

- Clamped dependency versions for compatibility (Thanks [@vicky5124](https://github.com/vicky5124) for reporting this issue).
- Switched audio dependency from `opuslib` to be fully `FFmpeg`-dependent; minor lag improvement (Thanks [@vicky5124](https://github.com/vicky5124) for recommending).
- Refactored internal client cache for slightly better lookup performance and readability.

## Fixed

- `VoiceReconnectEvent` constructor docstring return type fixed from `VoicePopulatedEvent`.
- `MemberJoinVoiceEvent`, `MemberLeaveVoiceEvent`, `MemberLeaveVoiceEvent`, `MemberDeafEvent`, and `MemberMuteEvent` now dispatch regardless if the bot is in the channel with them.

## Removed

- `VoiceActiveEvent`, `VoiceInactiveEvent`, `VoicePopulatedEvent` and `VoiceEmptyEvent` as they were redundant of logic from other events.

# Version 0.0.1a2

Released `December 17th, 2025`

## Added

- `VoiceConnection`.`play` method for completeness.
- New `AudioBeginEvent` and `AudioEndEvent`.
- New audio queue system:
    1. `Player`:
        - `previous`, `next` to scan forward and backward in the queue/history.
        - `add_queue` to add sources to the queue.
        - `remove_queue`, `clear_queue` to remove/clear sources from the queue.
        - `queue` property to view the queue, `history` property to view history.
    2. `VoiceConnection` (for convenience):
        - Corresponding `previous`, `next`.
        - Corresponding `add_queue` and additional `add_queue_file`.
        - Corresponding `remove_queue`, `clear_queue` and additional `remove_queue_file`.

## Fixed

- Made all object attributes private, with public attributes made as properties.

# Version 0.0.1a1

Released `December 16th, 2025`

Original `alpha` release.