# Version 0.1.0a1

Released `December 20th, 2025`

## Added

- Configuration override options in `VoiceClient` constructor. Allows the customization of output audio options, like bitrate and channels.
- Volume settings per `AudioPlayer`, or override per source in each `AudioSource` constructor.
- Clean `VoiceClient`.`close()` method.

## Changed

- Internal `FFmpeg` processes now pooled globally instead of per connection/guild. Detailed log below**.
- Removed repetitive internal error catches - causing silent errors.

## FFmpeg Process Pool Log

- During testing/benchmarking, a singular `FFmpeg` spawned process per guild/connection would occupy `~4.5 MB` of RAM on the host server.
- Doing a bit of math, and a `O(N)` programmatic linear scale, `100` guild connections playing audio concurrently would occupy `~470 MB`.
- Because of that figure, and plans for near-future scalability, it was decided to make a `FFmpeg` process pool.
- This pool would create new processes as they were needed, up to a certain amount per logical CPU core, up to a hardcap. All of this is configurable using the new configuration settings in the `VoiceClient` constructor.
- Because these processes encode each audio source at once and then store the raw Opus frames in a buffer, each audio source goes from about `3.3 MB of MP3` to `2.6 MB of Opus` inside of the buffer - with high quality settings - thus lowering the amount of RAM internally.
- Taking an average of 10 processes at the same time, `~50 MB` of RAM, and 100 servers streaming audio (`2.6 MB` of RAM each), it's about `310 MB` of RAM used total, thus saving about `40%` of RAM usage on a host server, dwindling hosting costs. 100 concurrent servers fits in the size of a `Google Chrome Tab`. Pretty neat.
